The American Cancer Society has just
come out recently with their projections
for 2026 and it's the worst it's ever
been. The origin of cancer comes from
mitochondrial dysfunction. Once you
understand what I know about cancer,
you're going to look back and say, "This
is the greatest tragedy in the history
of medicine." When your body is in a
state of nutritional ketosis, these
cancer-killing drugs and managing drugs
work so much better. Some people would
rather die than not eat sugar. The
National Cancer Institute on their
website clearly says that cancer is a
genetic disease. We and others have
clearly shown it's not a genetic
disease. If we get cancer patients like
some of these pancreatic cancer
patients, they're being poisoned to
death. There's no question about it.
>> All right, I'm here.
>> So great to have you on the show today.
We're excited.
>> Can Can you guys hear me? All right.
>> Can hear absolutely hear you. Yes, sir.
>> Okay. Uh well, thank you guys for for
having me today. It's a real pleasure.
>> My name is Mark and his name is Ensema.
>> Ensema. Nice meeting you. Where were you
guys in the on the West Coast? You're
out in California somewhere.
>> We're in Sacramento. I believe you're in
Boston, right?
>> Yeah. With snow and rain.
>> Oh [__]
>> Yeah. A lot. Uh you got to stay in shape
to be uh shoveling around here. That's
the That's the whole thing here. You
know, my back is my back is killing me
from all the heavy snow we've been
lifting.
>> Oh, I bet.
>> I've been friends with uh Ron Penna for
many years. Do you know the name Ron
Penna? Ron Sanctuary and so on. Yeah.
>> Yeah. He he'd had the Keto Pet Sanctuary
there for a while. He was running that
>> with Daniel and a couple other guys.
>> Oh, yeah. Daniel Orgo and
>> and uh Dominic Dagghastino, right?
>> Yeah. All friends of mine.
>> All right. All right. Well, let's just
dive in. Maybe you can just tell us flat
out like what the heck is cancer and uh
maybe like uh what we're misinterpreting
about cancer since it seems like it's on
the rise and seems like we can't really
make a dent in it quite yet.
>> No, you're right about that. It's really
tragic at the highest levels. The
American Cancer Society has just come
out recently with their projections for
2026.
Uh and it's the worst it's ever been.
So um every year it gets worse but this
year particularly
um we have had since 2013 we've had a 7%
increase in the number of dead people um
millions and and uh what what we are
projecting this year is 62
uh6,000 people will projected to die
this year in 2026 which comes to about
>> interrupters for one I apologize I don't
I don't I don't mean to cut you off But
I think people are immediately thinking
like with the rise like does that have
anything do to do with the co vaccines?
>> Um I'm not sure. I'll talk about that.
Um but what what we're seeing is is as I
said about 1,700 people a day which
comes out to about 70 people an hour. Um
it's hard to predict if the co vaccines
were responsible for this. Uh the reason
I say that is because um we have direct
evidence that the virus itself
uh can damage and influence
mitochondria. Um and uh you know a lot
of people uh because all the origin of
cancer comes from mitochondrial
dysfunction. We've shown that many
others have shown that the the problem
is if the if the co virus itself can
damage mitochondria and many people take
who've taken the vaccine has have also
had uh covid myself included um uh it's
hard to know if I were to get cancer uh
whether it would be from the vaccine or
from the co itself and and and I we and
scientists have not yet separated those
two. Yes, there are. It seems to be a
rise. It's not clear whether it's a
combination of one, the other, or the or
the two of them together. And that we'll
have to wait to find that out later on.
And what is cancer?
>> Cancer is simply defined as cell
division out of control or or
disregulated cell growth or division.
That's that's the simple definition. So
you have some cells in your body in a
particular organ that start to grow in a
disregulated way, no longer responding
to the inhibitory factors that would
normally keep most normal cells under
growth control. So there's a out of
control and it's we we have clearly
linked that back to a chronic disruption
of the ability of our mitochondria in
the cells uh to regulate the the growth
characteristics of the cells
>> and I believe a lot of your work has to
do a little bit more on the metabolism
side. I think it was originally thought
that uh cancer was a little bit more of
a genetic component to it. Um but if it
is a metabolism, if it is more of a
metabolic disease, um how does metabolic
disease show up in somebody who's so
young sometimes?
>> Yeah. Well, we have that's a good
question because we have an obesity
epidemic. Obesity is replacing smoking
as a number one risk factor. We have an
obesity epidemic even in the young
people in our society.
uh we we have uh an emergence of these
forever chemicals uh that are permeating
through uh our food chains. Um you put
that together, there's never never
really one thing that we have found that
contributes to chronic disruption of
energy metabolism in the mitochondria.
It's a combination of things. Chemicals,
lack of sleep, poor diet, poor food,
highly processed carbs, systemic
inflammation. You put all that together
and you become at high risk for
disregulated cell proliferation which is
cancer.
>> You know I know we are focused on people
in the United States when it comes to
this but is there anywhere in the world
currently that seems to have somewhat
maybe of a flatline in terms of cancer
incidents or even potentially a decrease
or is it just an increase worldwide?
>> That's a good question. It's an increase
worldwide uh in those individuals that
followed the great American diet and
lifestyle. Uh when when you uh that was
our greatest contribution to world
health was our diet and lifestyle. So
right I mean let's be honest. Um but you
know years ago and even today the great
humanitarian physician Albert Schwitzer
studied uh um tribes in Africa and other
countries that lived according to their
traditional ways and rarely did they
have cancer. Uh cancer uh entered into
their societies as soon as uh western
diets and lifestyle entered into the
society. So we we as a species uh have
been around for a long time in
Paleolithic hundreds of thousands of
years ago and these folks uh who lived
according to their traditional ways and
we know that because people that do that
today rarely have cancer. Um it's very
uncommon to find cancer either in wild
animals or people who lived according to
their traditional ways. So clearly in
the old days, and I'm talking hundreds
of thousands of years ago, four or 500
thousand, the cause of death was
predominantly infections and injuries.
It wasn't chronic disease, uh, diabetes
and cancer and cardiovascular, all this
kind of stuff that we that we're
currently experiencing today. So So
clearly, and it's getting worse because
we have more less uh activity uh our
level of activity. You think what it was
to be a paleolithic man uh regardless of
what continent you lived on, you had to
have a lot of exercise. You were eating
all organic foods uh natural foods um
that would uh be very low. You didn't
have access to highly processed carbs.
So you put all that together in our
society today and and and we have this
explosion not only of cancer but also
chronic diseases, diabetes,
hypertension, high blood pressure,
cardiovascular disease, dementia. All of
these are linked to the same uh root
cause which is mitochondrial
dysfunction. Our mitochondria in the
cell control the destiny of our
existence on the planet. They determine
when a cell should divide and when it
should uh rest. uh and when that organel
becomes corrupted then cells start
dividing out of control fed by what we
had we have defined as two fuels the
sugar glucose and the amino acid
glutamine. As long as the cancer cells
have access to those fuels, they will
continue to grow. And there's no uh
trial in the world right now that's
simultaneously targeting those two fuels
while transitioning the body over to
nutritional ketosis, which is how we
evolved in a state of of nutritional
ketosis.
>> And that's kind of what you recommend,
right? You try to get people on like
almost like a ketogenic style diet. And
then I believe some of the parasite
drugs can target glutamate.
>> Glutamine. Yeah. Yeah. So so so um you
know here's the situation. Uh that's the
cancer cells are locked into energy
without oxygen. And and that's called
fermentation. And both the sugar glucose
and the amino acid glutamine can both be
fermented. Our big big uh discovery in
this cancer field was the fermentation
of glutamine. uh the field still has not
come to understand that they they think
it's
>> stomach or the gut
>> uh glutamine is a the most abundant
amino acid in our body. So uh we need
glutamine for the immune system for our
gut. Yes. Uh we we need that amino acid
but the cancer cell also has a rapacious
appetite for that same amino acid and
they ferment it along with glucose. So
these two fuels are supercharged
uh supercharging the the abnormal growth
and proliferation of the cell uh of
cells, cancer cells. And and you have to
also realize that uh nutritional ketosis
is when glucose is low and ketone bodies
are elevated. And that's how we evolved.
We were always in a semi-state of
ketosis except during periods of time
when fruit was ripe uh and you'd eat a
lot of berries and fruit that would that
would elevate blood sugar and reduce
ketones. But other than that, we were
always in a semi-state of ketosis just
like Dom Dagustinino. My friend Dom is
always in a semi-state of ketosis. He
kills and eats alligators and squirrels
and he's actually like paleolithic man
in modern society, right? So, and he
measures these parameters all the time.
And so I always asked him I said you
know what state we we developed this
called the glucose ketone index
calculator which will eventually become
the standard by which we manage all
these chronic diseases and in both
management and prevention and Don tells
me oh I'm always in like you know um a
GKI value of about five between five and
10 uh and we're coming out with a with a
big paper uh and it's a lead article in
the journal Frontiers in Science that
will allow the population uh to know the
world population to know at any given
time uh uh what zone of health they're
in by looking at their GKI. So this
paper will be coming. You can use it to
both prevent prevent cancer and chronic
disease if you don't have cancer and
chronic disease or if you have cancer
and chronic disease you get down into a
lower GKI uh and you can manage it. uh
with respect to the parasite medications
uh we have found uh through our own
research here at Boston College that uh
Mbendazol and fenbendazol
are targeting the same metabolic pathway
that the cancer cell uses. A lot of
people make a mistake and say cancer is
a parasite. No, no, no. Cancer is not a
parasite. Parasite is a totally
different organism. But what the
parasite and cancer do they use the
glutamine fermentation pathway uh uh
similarly so when I saw people oh we can
kill parasites with these medications I
tried it on the cancer and of course it
kills the cancer cells as well uh
especially when the body is in
nutritional ketosis it's like a super
just blast these tumor cells the pro the
problem is people don't know about this
and uh when you talk to people they
never heard uh of these kinds of things
so uh we know very Well, how to manage
cancer, how to prevent cancer. It's just
that the word take it takes time for the
word to get out and for the science to
be understood.
>> You just mentioned manage and prevent.
Um so this actually makes me curious
with the fendazol and the other
medication that you mentioned um along
with nutritional ketosis. Are there
trials or are there studies or have have
these things been put into practice to
help people get rid of cancer? this is
already working in the field.
>> Um well to be honest with you they do
try some of this singularly. The problem
with what we have today is uh we've been
forced by the system to do clinical
trials which is a singular agent a
double blind crossover. When you use a
singular agent like embendazol or a
parasite medication, the probability of
it having a powerful effect is not as
great as it would be if the patient were
in nutritional ketosis when you when you
use the the drug. That's that's what
we're our whole big thing. Let me tell
you something. We have clinics around
the world that are testing all this
stuff as we speak. No big clinical
trials only because we're still in the
early stages of working out what we
should do and how to do it.
uh I I do all the pre-clinical work here
at Boston College to test everything
before we put it into people. But we
have people in different parts of the
country world uh who were using various
parasite drugs in in in together with
the once the patient is in a state of
nutritional ketosis. Their body is
primed to have these drugs work as very
powerful agents. Even chemotherapy,
we're finding you can use one third one
half to onethird the dose of a toxic
chemo and have it work even better when
the patient is in nutritional ketosis
thereby reducing toxicity allowing the
patient to survive far far longer with a
higher quality of life. Um so when we
use some of these drugs you know using
them by the let me give you an example
there's a drug called demeistat
uh CPI um uh 613 it was for pancreatic
cancer uh it targets a metabolic pathway
but when they used it in clinical trial
on humans it was too toxic and they had
to stop the trial. So we looked at that
drug in our pre-clinical models here and
it was for pancreatic cancer and we used
it uh uh for cancer management exactly
as they said for humans and in the mouse
and it was too toxic and it was killing
the mice. So we kept the same result and
then we said well we we never do that.
We always put the mouse in a state of
nutritional ketosis first and then we
give the drug. And the drug was
unbelievably powerful without toxicity.
As long as you put the patient or the
mouse in this case in in nutritional
ketosis, uh we don't have to use the
highest concentration of drug. We use
just tiny amounts of these drugs. Uh
when your body is is in a state of
nutritional ketosis, these these
cancer-killing drugs and managing drugs
work so much better. uh they're so
powerful. The problem is the system
doesn't allow it because they're they
have uh uh standards of care written in
granite that allow no level of
flexibility. So these poor cancer
patients are brutalized by by by a
system that does not allow flexibility
to adjust dosages, timing, scheduling
and or putting patients in nutritional
ketosis. Many oncology clinics think uh
diet has nothing to do with cancer. They
try to feed glucose, high doses of
glucose to the cancer patient to put
weight on him. I mean, it's tragedy.
Once you understand what I know about
cancer, you're going to look back and
say, "This is the greatest tragedy in
the history of medicine."
>> Do uh anabolic steroids or growth
hormone or things like that, do they
exacerbate cancer? Do they speed things
up? I've heard people say things like
that in the past.
>> Only I think only if they raise uh
glucose or glutamine. Anything that
would raise glucose or glutamine has the
potential to do that. We have not yet
tested or looked at that in in my
pre-clinical studies. So I can't
specifically answer that. All we know is
that when we raise glutamine levels and
we raise glucose levels, the tumors are
very are growing very rapidly.
>> What are things that make glutamine
levels go higher?
>> Um actually taking glutamine. People
take it for muscle building and stuff
like this. Now if you don't have cancer,
there's no problem. Uh you can build
muscle by taking glutamine. I mean, if
you're not suffering from cancer, then
this is okay. And your gut health and
all these other things, but if you were
to have cancer and you were chugging
down liquid that had glutamine and
glucose in it, we and we've tested that.
We we have a paper out on it. We showed
that how it can make cancers grow
faster. So, so clearly it depends on
what level of of health you're in. I
mean, we don't say don't take glutamine
is already super high in our
bloodstream. Uh, it's there to protect
us from infections and diseases. What?
because our immune system cells need
glutamine to fight uh invasion of
bacteria and burn patients when they're
burned uh they have to take very high
levels of glutamine because the cells in
our body you're now open to bacteria
coming into your body and the and the
macrofasages and immune cells use
glutamine to kill the bacteria. So again
this this uh this metabolite must be
viewed cautiously. it it it can either
be your uh help you or or or it can hurt
you if you don't know what to do and how
to do it.
>> It's some of my understanding that uh
some ways to get your mitochondria to be
you know more efficient um is through
things like detium depletion. Have you
like looked into that much? Is there
>> you know I think the sun I think it can
help det uh deplete detium. I think we
are inside way more than we used to be.
I think it's like almost reversed on how
much time we spend inside versus
>> outside and I know there's dutarium
depleted water and so on. Are these
things that you've seen to have to move
the needle at all or
>> Yeah, we know we we we were given a
bunch of dutium depleted water and we
were all drinking it drinking it, you
know, and didn't have any effect. Uh we
we we did any noticeable effect like you
were drinking any water. Um and we put
it on some cells in culture and it had
no no killing capability. So the answer
is I have no clue. Uh all I know is if
you if you're allowing the glucose and
glutamine to be a available the tumor
cells are going to remain growing. It's
going to be hard to kill them. Uh that's
what we do know. Uh and we've tested
that over and over again. As far as the
tridium depleted water, I I can't really
speak to I haven't seen anything that
would draw my attention to say this was
really important.
You know, whenever cancer is talked
about, there are some very bold people
that are health influencers that will
say certain things like this prevents
cancer, etc. And you did mention level
of prevention. The question I have is
that you mentioned that when people get
cancer, it can be a stack of things,
right? So, you're eating a lot of sugary
foods, you're sedentary, you've been
doing this for a long time, maybe you're
not getting good sleep, which also
increases that stress on the
mitochondria, and boom, this happens.
Well, what would be the opposite
potential cancer prevention
lifestyle and nutritional stack that one
would try to think about for themselves
and the way that they live?
>> Yeah. Well, that's now you're going back
and saying, "Can we live like we were in
Paleolithic periods?"
When you when you when you see that dog
walking through your backyard, he's a
meal,
you know. I mean, the squirrels are gone
and all the all the raccoons are gone,
you know, uh every every kind of a
Canada geese, you see them all over, you
know, they're gone. Uh so so uh but but
no to be honest with you uh as I said
we're coming out with a color-coded
chart uh that allows you to put your
body into these nutritional states. Um
and you prick your finger uh and you use
the glucose strip and the ketone strip
and and a meter that right now it's the
Keto Mojo meter. There's a number of
meters right now for measuring glucose
and ketones. Uh only Keto Mojo has them
incorporated into a single you p you
push the button and you immediately get
your GKI and and it's hard to get cancer
when your GKI zones are like 20 in the
20s 10 to 20 30. Uh let me talk let me
just say that's a state of metab
mitochondrial metabolic health. It's
very hard to get cancer when your
mitochondria are in a state of metabolic
health. the before today before I've we
when our paper there was no quantitative
measure to know whether or not your
mitochondria were in a state of
metabolic health uh was guesswork.
People can say, "Oh, I'm on a ketogenic
diet." I said, "What's your GKI?" I
don't know. I never measured it. Well,
we're going to allow people to measure
their GKIs and know exactly where they
are. Now, if you want want me to tell
you something,
many members of our society are in the
deep red zone and uh which is where
you're damaging your mitochondria and uh
and that's why we have the obesity
epidemic, the chronic disease epidemic
and and and and we're going to know uh
when you're in those deep red zones and
how long you want to stay in the deep
red zone. All all of this is uh personal
choice. uh if people want to eat large
amounts of carbohydrate, processed
carbs, don't exercise, don't sleep well,
they're going to be in the deep red zone
and and and how long you want to stay in
that. And the body is unbelievable. Some
people live in that zone for 20 or 30,
40 years before they get cancer. It's
unbelievable. But at least at least you
have the choice now to know I don't I
want to leave this zone and move into
one of these other zones which I'm going
to restore mitochondrial health. uh
before today before this is papers
coming out there was no way to know
that. So now it's the burden of health
falls on the shoulders of the individual
as to whether they want to measure their
blood ketone get their GKI value and
know where they stand. So, if they are
always in the yellow zone, which is a
prevent powerfully preventative zone,
where you're doing weightlifting, uh,
uh, exercise, you're eating, you're
eating, uh, uh, good foods, you're not
highly processed carbs, you're getting
good sleep, you're not stressed out,
you're not sitting on your damn cell
phone all day long getting freaked out
by what somebody said. You know, you're
you're removing all the stress factors
that put you at risk for chronic
disease. But now, it's going to come to
everybody's choice. They're going to
they're going to they're going to know
what and and you know we're coming out
with glucose continuous glucose ketone
monitors. I it's interesting because
then right on your cell phone you'll
have the colorcoded chart and all you do
is pull out your cell phone and know
exactly at that point in time and day
what zone you're in for mitochondrial
health or ill health. So, but I found
out something very interesting. Some
people get upset about that when they're
when they have the continuous monitor.
they're gonna go out and have a nice
time and the monitor says you're not
you're in a BAD ZONE. SO WHAT THEY DO is
they tear it off their arm. I don't want
to know that.
So So listen, but that's why if you do
if you do if you want to be in control
of your destiny, then you prick your
finger when you want to prick your
finger to get the results to get your
GKI as opposed to something on your arm
telling you don't do that.
So, do you have a do you have a
calculator available now like on a
website or an app or anything?
>> Well, right right. Yeah. Right now you
can go and buy there's a Keto Mojo meter
and I don't want I'm not pushing Keto
Mojo. It's the only meter right now that
that does the GKI. Uh the other
precision extra by Abbott Labs. Uh they
will give you the glucose by itself and
ketone by itself and then you have to do
the mathematical conversion to get the
GKI. the the Mojo you just push the
button and it already gives you the GKI
right there.
>> So that makes it more convenient for the
people who don't want to do simple
mathematics. Um but all of them will
event all of these meters will
eventually be incorporating a GKI uh in
there when people realize how important
it is to maintain health.
>> How does something like lactic acid play
into this? It's like I'm just thinking
in my head, my meatthead head, I'm
thinking like I know you can go to the
gym and you can like change your
metabolism. like your metabolism can be
in one state and then you can just go
from a state of fat burning and a state
of being very calm and your heart rate's
very low
>> to then having your heart rate elevated
quite a bit and you can do uh when I was
when I was uh maybe like 15 or so I
remember doing these like depletion
workouts
>> and the idea of the depletion workout
was deplete your body of glucose and
then you would eat some carbohydrates
afterwards but in this case uh if we're
trying to like fight or yield off cancer
uh maybe we don't uh replace uh that
with glucose, maybe we stay on the lower
carb style diet. Do these have these
things been kind of shown to cut back on
cancer, reduce cancer risk?
>> Yeah, we we've done that. Yeah, we
published all those papers that first
with the mouse and then uh you know, we
we showed that the level of glucose in
the blood was directly correlated with
how fast the tumor was would grow and
how how how little time on the planet
people would have uh to live. uh then it
was uh after we did that in the year
2003 we published a big paper on this uh
on the ratio of glucose and and and
ketones in the blood and then uh they
started doing it at the in the human uh
clinics uh bl brain cancer, breast
cancer, colon cancer, lung cancer.
Anybody the people who have high blood
sugar levels usually die faster than
those who have lower sugar levels. Um,
as far as lactic acid is concerned, when
you when you do a lot of exercise, as
you know, you're going to increase
lactic acid uh in the bloodstream, but
that lactic acid goes to the liver and
is reconverted back into glucose through
the what they call the c the Corey
cycle, named for uh Carl and and and
Gertie Gert Corey. Um but but um so but
if you have lower glucose when your your
brain and muscle suck up the most
glucose uh especially exercising m
muscle uh muscle needs the glucose.
Muscle does not share glucose with other
organs. So if you can keep your exercise
you're going to deprive the tumor cell
of the the necessary glucose and the
muscle the muscle will take that. But
what what our bodies do is they start
mobilizing fat and the fat goes to the
liver and it's like a wood chipper. The
longchain fatty acids go to the liver
liver and the liver chops them up into
the water soluble ketone bodies and the
brain and the heart uh and even muscles
can transition over to fatty acids and
ketones in addition to glucose. Uh but
the tumor cells can't they can't the
tumor cell can't switch. It's locked
into this glucose glutamine fermentation
and they can't they can't switch. The
normal cells in our body switch. Now the
normal cells become direct competitors
with the tumor cell. So the tumor cells
are getting hammered not only because
they have we're putting drugs on top of
them, but we're exercising the body uh
causing the normal cells to suck up more
glucose than the tumor cells and the
tumor cells up and die. They can't
compete. Uh and and you know this is
amazing because when you go to the
clinic in the oncology they give you
high high gl co Coca-Cola and give you
insure they give you everything that
will keep the tumor cells alive and
happy. It's just unbelievable. So uh um
and that's the lack it's called uh lack
of knowledge scientific illiteracy
basically. So you would never want to do
those things. So once you understand
your body, once you understand what
mitochondria can do and how they can
switch from different fuels and healthy
mitochondria and the tumor cells can't,
uh people will make their own choices on
how best to manage cancer along with the
advice of of of their physician.
>> Why would a ketogenic diet be important
rather than maybe just low carb? And the
reason why I asked that is because what
I've seen in my my own ketogenic
experiences over the years, uh, the kind
of the more I stuck to lower carb and
the more that I did that, the actual
higher, uh, that my blood glucose would
register, it start to register, uh, you
know, being 90 and so on, being it was
higher. Um, and when I switched back to
eating like a little bit of
carbohydrate, it it went lower. And I
realize I have maybe different
circumstances than your average person,
but
>> well, I I think you would need to
measure your GKI. You're only measuring
one one you're only measuring one of the
two variables. Uh because you know, if
you have um a blood sugar of of u you
know 4 millmer and then you have a
ketone of 2 millmer, I mean you're going
to have a low GKI. You I mean you're
going to you're going to have a low G
and you're going to be healthy. So it's
you got to you got to take the two
measures together uh to get to get the
the optimal dose. If you have two mill 3
millmer of glucose and 3 millmer of
ketone, you're at one. Uh uh and
sometimes you can have more ketone in
the blood than glucose. You're down
below one. And you know, we've seen let
me tell you something there. There was a
study by Drenic uh some years ago. I
think it was back in the early 80s,
1980s. And and um they took these obese
guys uh really really obese people and
they fasted them for uh water only uh
for uh 30 days uh no no food at all. And
they they had uh high high ketone levels
and then they they you can't do these
studies today. You'd be arrested and
thrown in jail. But uh what they did to
these fat guys is they they once they
got them with no food for 30 days, they
injected them with um with insulin which
pushed their blood sugar down to barely
measurable almost no sugar in the blood
was
0.5 mill five millmer. Can you believe
this? And that you know normally that
would kill people. These guys were
walking around with no cognitive decline
at all because their brains had
completely shifted over their heart
their muscle all shifted over to
ketones. So glucose is really a
non-essential metabolite. Uh we have it
only only to feel good about ourselves,
but you really don't need it. Uh because
we can switch over to ketones. Um so
when you when you that's why it's
important to look at the GKI values to
get the full to get a more global
picture of your overall metabolic
health. And to up to this point, no one
has been able to do that except us. Uh
because we developed the thing here at
Boston College. I did it for the brain
cancer patients years ago. I didn't know
it was going to have such incredible
broad utility uh to manage all major
chronic diseases, but that's that's what
it can do.
>> I'm curious about melanomas and skin
cancers because um you know, we've we
talked a lot about sunlight on this
podcast with different experts on the
sun and obviously it's great for
mitochondrial health. A lot of people do
live more lifestyle inside and a lot of
people do choose to actually avoid the
sun because of scares of melanomas. So
first, does the ketogenic style diet
fasting does this have the same effect
on those types of cancers than the other
cancers that we've been talking about?
Is it is that the same?
>> Yeah, pretty much. We've looked at
melanoma. uh they have mitochondrial
defect and they're fermenting glucose
and glutamine just like brain cancer,
colon cancer, all these cancers are
basically similar in their dependency on
glucose and glutamine fermentation and
they can't switch to ketones. Uh so yeah
melanoma you like if you if you have
these disorders and you go into water
only fasting or we what we always do is
we we we my I I'm not a physician so I
don't do anything but I tell my
colleagues who are practicing physicians
you go zero carb for 14 to 20 days and
then you walk step into a water only
fast and then you hit them with the
parasite medications and and and you can
really demolish these melanomas and
these other cancers as well because
they're all dependent on the same fuels
glucose and glutamine. So, uh we we one
of the things we're an we're an equal
opportunity killer of cancer. Uh we
don't discriminate from one kind of
cancer to another kind of cancer,
non-discriminatory killer of cancer. Uh
because they're all dependent on the
same the same problem. They can't they
can't burn fatty acids or ketones and
they're dependent on glucose and
glutamine. So a a follow-up question on
that because I actually oddly enough I
know a few people who have melanoma and
in the in these contexts these
individuals also kind of have a family
history and tendency. They also are very
pale. So curious in their sense when it
comes to their lifestyle, I I know you
can't you're not you're not necessarily
giving medical advice and telling this
person to do this, but it would be in
their best interest maybe to think about
a ketogenic diet as a nutritional
practice.
>> Um well, it could certainly or you
could, you know, acclimate to the sun
gradually rather than going out and get
the burn burn the crap out of you or
something like this, you know. uh
there's a gradual you know even
white-kinned people can gain melanin in
their in their in their if you gradually
right
I mean you won't have the level of
melanin that you have but but you'll
certainly move up there uh and uh and be
protected and I agree with you the sun
is is part of the health we get a lot of
vitamin D from the sun and vitamin D
makes things work a hell of a lot better
too so avoiding the sun and you You know
what's weird too? Uh, some people get
melanoma on the soles of their feet, you
know. I mean, well, they never get any
sun. Are you kidding me? Unless you're
unless you're walking on your hands with
your feet in the air, you know, you
know. So, uh, but but you know, you have
to look at it. when you and you know and
when the tumor starts to shrink down and
get smaller uh and then you can come in
with some lowd dose chemo uh as long as
you're in a nutrition a state of
nutritional ketosis and the lowd dose
chemo just wipes out any surviving tumor
cells that might be there. So there's a
lot of flexibility and options that
people can use uh for the various
cancers including melanoma.
>> Are there some people genetically that
can't get cancer?
Oh, w well that's um uh uh well I don't
know if it's genetic like like like I
well we're we're it's very hard to get
cancer. You have to beat the crap out of
your mitochondria over a period of time
you know and and what about all the the
the human tribes that that uh existed
according to their traditional ways.
They were out in the sun. They were
doing all as I said Schweitzer actually
was looking for cancer in tribes that
lived according to their ways. A lot of
them were Africans but not always. the
Eskimos, the Inowit people, the British
when they first looked at the health
value of uh health of condition of of
Inouits in the Arctic Circle, they
didn't have cancer either. Um so, and
when I say didn't have it, it it was so
rare. It was un unrecognizable if it did
if it did happen. It wasn't something
like we have today where it's overtaking
heart disease as the number one killer
of people in the in the societies. So,
so yeah. So, we're genetically
um protected from cancer, most of us. Uh
unless we beat the hell out of our
mitochondria through chronic abuse. Um
and then then you put yourself at risk
for cancer and other chronic diseases.
>> What about uh like regions? Like what
about people that u live at higher
altitudes and things of that nature?
Have we seen or people that uh you know
maybe live closer to the equator? I'm
just making stuff up here, but like have
we seen different locations just have
different results? And I'm sure there's
probably it's again multiffactorial, not
just one thing, but have we seen any
lower cancer rates in those areas?
>> Well, um, generally there there there
are lower cancer rates in those folks
that live according to these traditional
ways. The cancer explodes. Uh the I
because I I gave a a talk at um uh
Thunder Bay Medical School in Canada
which services the Inuit population uh
who used to be some of the healthiest
people uh on the planet, you know, 100
years ago. Uh but now they're 50% have
obesity, diabetes, cancer, dementia.
It's unbelievable uh what what switching
your diet from from I guess uh whale
meat and walruses and seals and fish to
um cocoa pops and Froot Loops
and hamburg
hamburgers and fraps and all that kind
of [__] You know the the it's
unbelievable like in one or two
generations you go from healthy to to
decrepit. So, so clearly uh we did not
evolve uh listen all of our existence on
the planet was to have sweet things
where where I paleo anti an ancestors
get sweet maybe from honey uh that or
sweet ripe ripe fruits and berries
during a seasonal period. Uh so we
gradually realized you could harvest
sugar from sugar cane and beets and
things like that. We process it and as
soon as we have the sugar epidemic, we
got all kinds of neuroscsychiatric
problems, cancer problems, dementia
problems. We got every kind of a
problem. Uh because we're taking in too
much of the fuel that we've always
desired to have. And we are still paleo.
That's what I said. Biologically, we're
still paleolithic men and women. Uh but
our technology has accelerated so fast
that our our our healthy our biology is
overwhelmed with the toxins that we're
putting into it. There are many people
especially who they work out a lot.
They're they look like they're in very
good shape and sometimes you'll see,
wow, this this inshape person got
cancer, right? And it makes people
wonder, well, what the hell? If they
look like that, how is this possible?
>> A curiosity I have is within health and
fitness to fuel oneself, a lot of
fitness folks choose to use
carbohydrates as their main form of
energy, right? uh and and maybe go lower
fat and they do that chronically. You'll
see this in runners, you'll see this in
bodybuilders, grapplers, etc. Because
it's a very quick energy source, right?
>> Is there something that these athletes
should be paying attention to? Even if
they're physically jacked and ripped and
>> they should look at their GKI and see
where it is. If they're in the red zone
and they're looking like they're, you
know, they're jacked and fit and they're
in the red zone, they're putting their
mitochondria at risk. So, uh, so you
know, that was another thing, too. My my
colleague Jeff Olick from Ohio State
University, he's he studies extreme
athletes. These guys that, uh, they're
they don't run just marathons. They they
run like 100 miles.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, these guys. So, so they're all
burning ketones. Um and you know one
wonders uh uh about carb loading and all
this kind of stuff because when you take
a lot of carbs in you have to store in
the form of glycogen which are long long
chains of glucose and when you store
glycogen you have to store a lot of
water water with that fat is really
condensed so you can get tremendous
energy out of fat with much less water
storage. I never could figure out the
the the um guys who run the because I'm
here at BC Boston College and we have
the uh the Boston Marathon guys running
right in front of the school and they're
always in these carb tents uh the night
before and they're going to carry a lot
of extra water around. They're going to
create a lot of lactic acid. It's going
to seize up their muscles. But the guys
who win these u Kenyons and these kinds
of people, they like float. They they
they are just unbelievable specimens of
of human. They don't seem to load on on
that stuff. I I think they're all
burning ketones and and uh and they can
go for for hours and hours just like
these extreme athletes. Uh eventually
you're going to burn up all that
glycogen storage and you're going to be
suffering with lactic acid accumulation
which is going to slow you down. So, uh,
but you know, um, for, uh, sumo
wrestling, uh, these guys have an
explosive burst of or an offensive
lineman on a football team. You know,
uh, they have an explosive burst of
energy that's mostly glycolytic. And,
uh, I never see rarely do we see an
offensive lineman in any major football
team uh, running down a field like a
like a running back. They're not, they
can't do it. Um but uh you know besides
football is an explosive burst of energy
for just a short period of time. They're
not running for great distances and
things like this. So they might be able
to use some carbs. But you know I I've
I've looked into this and Jeff Bolick is
the world leader on this and he can give
you a much greater uh discussion about
the the health the the health uh
benefits of of ketones in in in extreme
extreme athletes.
>> Dr. Lily Yang, I believe his name is,
uh, from UCLA, uh, has an immunotherapy.
Are you aware of this? And what are your
thoughts? Some people are saying like
they I think it's really promising, uh,
what he created.
>> Well, I don't know. I've heard I've
heard that. I mean, we we know what the
tumor cell needs to to survive and it's
the glucose and glutamine. It can't burn
ketones. But that doesn't mean
imunotherapies can't be successful. uh
the problem with the imotherapies that
we have today like Katruda, abivo, carti
imunotherapy and these things they
sometimes uh will will not only kill
tumor cells but they'll also start
blowing out your liver and kidney uh and
you start dying what we call hyper
progressive disease uh this is well
known documented in the scientific
literature uh where the where the
therapy will kill you faster than the
cancer will and then there are some
people who respond so well to the
imunotherapy uh that they die from tumor
licis syndrome. They kill all the tumor
cells at the same time releasing a
massive amount of of of toxic um uh
metabolites into your bloodstream uh
overwhelming your immune system to
accommodate you die from from from that.
And then there are some people who do
really respond well uh to those
imunotherapies. So it's a and what we
found is one of the things that prevents
imunotherapies from really working well
is the acidification of the micro
environment surrounding the tumor and
that and that acidification comes from
the waste products of the glucose and
the glutamine waste products which are
lactic acid and suinic acid and that
prevents some of the imunotherapies from
actually working well. So if you can
simultaneously target the two fuels
driving the disregulated growth which
will reduce the acidification now you
can use very low doses of of
imunotherapy and chemo uh to polish off
these cancer cells. So it's it's again
we have all the tools that we need to
make huge drop in cancer deaths. Uh we
just don't we're just not using them
appropriately. We're not using them
correctly. Uh so once once they they
know how to use the tools effectively,
you're going to see a much much reduced
uh cancer incidence and when you have
cancer, you're going to be able to
manage it with much less toxicity with a
with a much longer overall uh favorable
outcome.
>> All right, Mark, you're getting leaner
and leaner, but you always enjoy the
food you're eating. So, how you doing
it?
>> I got a secret, man. It's called Good
Life Protein.
>> Okay, tell me about that.
>> I've been doing some Good Life Protein.
You know, we've been talking on this
show for a really long time of certified
Pedmontese beef.
>> And you can get that under the umbrella
of Good Life Proteins, which also has
chicken breast, chicken thighs, sausage,
shrimp, scallops, uh all kinds of
different fish, salmon, tilapia. Uh the
website has nearly any kind of meat that
you can think of. Lamb is another one
that comes to mind. And so I've been
utilizing and kind of using some
different strategy kind of depending on
the way that I'm eating. So, if I'm
doing a keto diet, I'll eat more fat and
that's where I might get the sausage and
I might get their 8020 grass-fed
grass-finish ground beef. I might get
bacon. And there's other days where I
kind of do a little bit more bodybuilder
style where the uh fat is, you know,
might be like 40 gram or something like
that. And then I'll have some of the
leaner cuts of the certified pedant
beef. This is one of the reasons why
like neither of us find it hard to stay
in shape because we're always enjoying
the food we're eating. And protein, you
talk about protein leverage all all the
time. It's satiating. It helps you feel
full. I look forward to every meal. And
I can surf and turf. You know,
>> I could cook up some uh, you know,
chicken thighs or something like that
and have some shrimp with it or I could
have uh some steak. I would say, you
know, the steak it keeps going back and
forth for me on my favorites. So, I it's
hard for me to lock one down, but I
really love the Bavet steaks.
>> Yeah.
>> And then I also love the ribe eyes as
well.
>> You can't go wrong with the ribe eyes.
So guys, if you guys want to get your
hands on some really good meat, pause,
you can head to goodlife proteins.com
and use code power for 20% off any
purchases made on the website. Or you
can use code power project to get an
extra 5% off if you subscribe and save
to any meats that are a recurring
purchase. This is the best meat in the
world. So uh until uh people realize
what I am saying because we have tested
this. We know the science. We know the
differences between what normal cells
and tumor cells can do. Uh and we know
how to manage cancer. We never use the
term cure. Uh cure is an arrogant term
uh making people think oh these guys can
cure cancer. We we have as a management
strategy. It allows people to live far
longer than what would have been
predicted using standard of care alone.
And we don't know if you're going to be
cured or not. If you die from old age at
98 and you had cancer at 30 and you use
matter then he was cured. We've cured
one dog for sure because he died of old
age he can't didn't die from cancer. Uh
but we don't like to use the term cure
because we don't know. All we know is
the people who do metabolic therapy
correct correctly live far longer than
those who don't.
Go
>> ahead. you know, with with the
information that you've put forward um
and all the progress that we've you've
been able to see with the research, what
is necessarily the holdup for the system
kind of taking up this approach with it
also being actually a very practical
approach if given to people in mass.
>> Yeah. Um well, those are not scientific
the reasons are unscientific. Okay.
uh the science we have we have published
we based it on the work of Otto Warberg
uh who was one of Germany's leading
scientists during the last century a
giant in the field of energy metabolism
and cancer we just followed his foot and
we've cleared up a lot of where he made
mistakes so we've actually shown that
ultimately he was right uh it's just
that he did not know about glutamine
fermentation and made some assumptions
that were incorrect and we've we've
cleared that all up so we now we now
know how to manage and prevent cancer
very very effectively. So the question
you're saying was why why is nobody why
is nobody doing this and and and and the
answer is many there's several reasons
um confirm first of all the national
cancer institute on their website
clearly says that cancer is a genetic
disease uh we and others have clearly
shown it's not a genetic disease so
there's a huge power structure that's
forcing
a a scenario a situation that's no
longer substantiated by science and they
won't change it. So, um, and it's called
confirmation bias. When everybody in the
world thinks it's this, uh, someone
comes along and shows them it's not
that. Well, I'm sorry. I can't believe
you because everybody else says it's
it's it's a genetic disease. And how
could you tell us it's not? Well, I
said, well, why don't you read the
paper? Oh, I didn't read the paper. Why
don't you read the paper and you'll come
to know? Um, people I I have a paper,
this is really interesting, on on the
origin of metastatic cancer. We
published it in 2013. It's one of the
highest cited papers that I've ever it's
1,700 times in the science there was
this paper was cited and almost nobody
read the paper. The only thing I said in
there is that metastasis is largely
responsible for the deaths of most
cancer patients. So they cite it because
of that and then they go publish
something saying cancer is a genetic
disease which is not. So it tells me
that the people are just citing papers
blindly because everybody else cited the
paper blindly. It's like the It's like a
bunch of sheep and these are supposedly
the smartest scientists that are
supposed to exist and as a result we got
1,700 people a day dying from cancer. um
institutional inertia, you know, uh
these academics and and uh they've made
great uh careers uh very famous careers
and make they make them look like they
know everything and they're top top dogs
on the top medical schools and and
they're basing it on an incorrect
assumption that cancer is a genetic
disease when it's not. So you have this
this u inertia that's already been
there, confirmation bias. people people
have become very rich and famous uh uh
describing cancer as a genetic disease.
All of a sudden you're going to say,
"Oh, that's my bad. I'm sorry. I made a
mistake about that."
>> You know what I'm saying? This is, you
know, and then you got peer pressure.
Some guy comes out and says, "I don't
think it's a genetic I Oh, no. You got
to say it's you want your NIH grant. You
want to keep this job at this hospital
and this this university? you better
make damn well sure it's a genetic
disease and start hunting for genes. Um
and of course um you know paradigm
paralysis. Everybody is comfortable
doing the same thing. And as I said in
my talks even the grim reaper is happy
with the status quo. His harvest has
never been greater. So, so, so you have
all of these uh non-scientific issues uh
that are preventing the the transition
from what we are currently doing to what
we should be doing. And that takes time.
And that's why we have all of these
folks. I get, you know, 30 40 emails a
day asking for help. And I don't tell
them what to do or how to do it. I just
give them all the educational material
that they can read for themselves and
discuss that with their primary care
physicians or whoever. And and you know,
we're seeing pancreatic cancer folks
that usually are dead within six months
to a year and they're out four and five
years. Brain cancer people. We're we're
getting lung cancer people and and we're
publishing these and they always say,
"Oh, that's only an N of one." "Oh,
that's only an N of five." You know, if
I had a drug that did that, I'd be a
billionaire. And then they say, "What
did you do? What did you do?" And I say,
"Stop eating carbohydrates and do more
exercise." Damn. And and we have the and
and monitor your GKI. And then when they
do that, uh, I can't I I'm even shocked
sometimes usually, but if we get cancer
patients like some of these pancreatic
cancer patients, they're being poisoned
to death. There's no question about it.
They look like these guys that came out
of the concentration camps. I mean,
they're just skeletons a and they're
walking around and they say, you know,
how did how did this happen? This was
the poisonous chemicals these people are
being given, you know, together with the
cancer. But I'll tell you, these
chemicals that we're giving these cancer
patients are killing a lot of these
cancer patients, making them sick. I I I
don't know any other kind of a disease
where you poison and irdiate people to
try to make them healthy. Don't make any
sense. We know what the science is. We
know what the cancer cells need to
survive and we know how to kill them
without toxicity. The problem is the
paradigm and the and the and the system
right now is not able to accommodate
this in in in in the standards that
we're using. So, it takes time. Uh uh
but I said the longer we wait the more
dead cancer patients. Right now we're
sacrificing 1,700 people a day that
don't need to be sacrificed for the for
the stabilization of the system. So it's
the system itself uh and many aspects of
this. That's the answer to your
question.
>> I think it was uh Ray Pete that brought
up the possibility that CO2 could be
something that could be effective
against cancer. Is that anything that
you've heard about or you are you aware
of CO2 uh being studied?
>> Well, CO2 will cause hypoxia. You know,
cancer cells thrive in hypoxia. So, I I
I don't see any scientific relevance to
that.
>> Interesting. Um, what do you think about
uh like uh I've heard I've heard a
couple people talk about like baking
soda. Like you hear all this weird stuff
on social media about these things that
could potentially help.
>> Is it doing anything to the glut
glutamine or the glucose?
>> No. If you try to try to alkenize your
body, all the enzyme systems in our body
work at a certain pH. They work at
around around pH7. What are you going to
try to screw that up? You're going to
screw your whole body up. We we did that
because we heard that too. So, I took
one of my metastatic cancer models and
we jacked them up with bacon soda and it
didn't do [__] I mean, it was like what
the hell? I said these guys got didn't
got their heads up their ass for crying
out loud. You know, you know, they
they're not doing this.
>> It's great that you have an open mind
though to try to Oh, yeah. still study
it. I I love that.
>> Yeah. Well, we try that. You know,
people say, "Oh, you got to try this.
You got to try that." But they don't
realize, you know, uh when we try to do
something seriously that we want to get
a scientific public cost about $80,000,
you know, this people, oh, just go try
that. Well, for baking soda, we could
easily do that. And we didn't get
anything. Same with the triduliated
water. We didn't see [__] with that. I
mean, the the the idea is is that we
know what cancer cell needs to survive.
Why are we screwing around with things
that are irrelevant? Why not go for the
throat of the cancer cell? We know what
they need to survive. Why are we doing
anything different than that? That's the
question. Why would you want to do some
baking soda? Why would you want to do
tradian water? The damn cells are
burning glucose and ke and ketones
glucose and and and glutamine and they
can't burn ketones. So, we know how to
kill them. And we just and we do dosage
timing and scheduling. published a
called press pulse therapeutic strategy
which is going to be the new standard of
care once people come to understand the
science of what we're talking about.
>> Why does the cancer cell want to run off
of glucose and glutamine?
>> Because their their mitochondria are
defective. We went through and looked
you in order to burn in order to burn
fatty acids and ketones, you have to
have a mitochondria that's healthy
structurally and functionally. When you
look under the microscope at these
cancers, you look under the
mitochondria, you have to look under
electron microscope ultra structure
because you it's hard to see it in light
microscopy. So you see the broken crise
they have abnormal association with
other membranes. Uh that's and that's
the organel that maintains order and
discipline within the cells. It tells
cells when to grow, when not to grow. Uh
we we constantly replace dead cells in
our body and we need to know when when a
cell needs to grow and replace and stop
growing. For example, liver
regeneration. If you lose a lobe of your
liver, the liver will regenerate rapidly
and replace the lobe with new cells, but
they know when to stop growing. They
have contact inhibition. And all that's
because the healthy mitochondria in
those cells dictate when a cell should
stop growing because they have calcium
signals between different cells. The
cancer cell has lost the very
controlling mechanism that allows them
to know when to stop growing. So they
continue to grow as long as the
fermentable fuels. Don't forget all the
cells that when our earth first started
there was nothing, no life, no light, no
no nothing. But uh there were organisms
that slowly started to form in a dark uh
oxygen absent earth and those cells all
fermented. They there was there was no
oxygen. So the way to get energy was
through non oxidative fermentation
called fermentation. So, uh, these
cancer cells in our body are simply
falling back on these ancient ancient
pathways that existed before oxygen came
into the atmosphere billions of years
ago. So, and they're driven by
fermentation. So, we said, what are the
fist, we we know glucose and glutamine
are the two prime fuels. What we did was
we grew cells in culture with nothing,
just so salt water, and then take a
stopwatch and see how long it takes them
to starve to death. And then we add
specifically amino acids and
carbohydrates back and see what makes
them perk up and survive and grow. So we
interrogated these tumor cells and asked
what the hell are they using to grow?
And that's how we know they can't grow
without glucose and glutamine. And they
need glucose and glutamine as the prime
fuels. They can't really burn other
amino acids. Uh yeah, and there other
sugars there like urodine and this
stuff. There's another term called
logistics.
Okay. So uh if you have to have a
significant amount of the material in
the environment for the cell it's a so
you have to have what it can burn and a
large amount of it available and that
keeps the cancer cells uh growing
rapidly and making them resistant to
chemo and radiation. So so we pretty
much know how to manage this disease uh
and how to keep people healthy. But the
problem is is it requires some level of
scientific literacy which which seems to
be in short supply in the population.
This might sound like a kind of a weird
question in a way, but like uh are
people willing to change their diet?
>> Uh sometimes yes, sometimes no. Uh and I
know that for a fact because our paper
that we just published last year, 2025,
on brain cancer, glyopblasto, which is
like the the most devastating brain
cancer, killed John McCain and former
President Biden's son and killed Teddy
Kennedy from here. Um, but we we had a
group of folks in in in Greece uh who
the guys who went on the diet and uh
stayed alive. Four out of six of them.
And the guys who didn't want to stay on
the diet uh everybody died except one
guy. And and several of the guys that
that died didn't want to give up sugar.
They said, "I can't live without my
sugar and I don't care if I die or not."
So it's a personal choice. So yes, the
answer is sugar is such a powerful drug
in the brain. Some people would rather
die than not eat sugar. Uh, and we've
had the direct evidence because they
told us they would rather die than stop
eating sugar. So, there's the answer to
your question.
I'm curious about um, you know, you've
mentioned that the ketogenic diet uh,
can make things like chemo more
effective. There was a certain drug you
brought up that was toxic and in the
presence of a ketogenic diet, that drug
in small amounts was effective, I
believe you said, on mice. I don't know
if you mentioned on humans or not. Um,
but it makes me wonder about other in
other interventions that we use in the
health community for mitochondria like
red light therapy is something that's
promoted for mitochondrial health. The
hyperbaric oxygen is something that's
promoted for mitochondrial health. And
I'm curious if these things um along
with a ketogenic diet have been if there
have been any type of benefits when it
comes to people who have cancer.
>> Yes. Uh yes, there because we tested
hyperbaric oxygen with Don Di Augustino
and his group. It works much better
again when you're in nutritional
ketosis. And the other the other thing
we have to always mention ketogenic
diets, I started all that uh for cancer
uh uh only because I I knew water only
fasting was so powerful. But when you
tell cancer patients, oh, don't drink
don't eat anything for 30 days, they're
going to say, what kind of nut are you?
So, so I worked in the epilepsy field
for 30 years and we were using ketogenic
diets in little kids with with with
epilepsy and it was developed as a a as
a um fasting mimicking diet which is
ketogenic diets. But we're turn we're
trying to change the terminology to
nutritional ketosis. Uh because the term
keto oh nobody can do that. You got to
sit around eat a tub of lard and do all
this kind of crazy [__] Um we do it
with we do it with tomahawk ribe eyes. I
I don't know. Can you eat a tomahawk
ribeye? I can eat a tomahawk ribeye.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> All right. So, we got down into low GKI
values with tomahawk ribe eyes. Uh lamb.
Uh um we we we What else did we use? Uh
we used we used a lot of these carnivore
things and eggs, bacon, and eggs. Okay.
Uh as long as you don't eat too much of
it, you should see your GKI go right
down. You're in nutritional ketosis. So,
when that's is it a ketogenic diet?
Well, it doesn't sound like one, but but
when you look at it from the GKI value,
the glucose ketone index, you're down in
the zone for killing cancer cells or in
the zone for preventing cancer as long
as you marry it with the exercise. The
exercise is so so important. So, when
you're in ketosis with exercise, it's
hard uh to get cancer. And if you have
it, you can get you can kill cancer
cells when you're in those zones. You
know, I know there's probably someone
listening to this podcast that heard you
say tomahawk ribeye and then immediately
thought carcinogens
and what what are your thought because
like there's a big part of the
nutritional community that still will
promote the idea of meats being
cancer-causing
and you're you mentioning this is
something as
>> that a tool to help bring somebody back.
Well, I guess I guess if it's if I guess
if you eat the meat with a whole bunch
of rice and potatoes and bread, uh it
might not be so good.
>> Do you think our ancestors killing a
deer said, "Give me a big load of rice
to go with that deer meat." You know,
>> right? Where's my Where's my baguette to
go with the deer I just killed? You
know, we ate meat. If we were if you if
we didn't eat meat, you and I wouldn't
be here to have this conversation. we
would have never existed on the planet.
It's the kind of meat you eat and what
you're eating with the meat. Now, if
you're eating meat that's all jacked up
with hormones and chemicals and all that
other crap and you're eating big loads
of potatoes and rice and I mean just eat
meat alone. That's how we evolved. We
ate meat and we had uh you know tubers
like uh you know yams and these kinds of
things uh that are highly that have a
lot of complex carbs and you don't get
much out of it either. Uh so so clearly
our diets were so different and we ate
meat. If we didn't eat meat, we evolved
to eat meat. We didn't we're not
herbivores. We're not cows and sheep. We
we're we're we're we're omnivores. Our
ancestors ate everything that walked,
crawl, fly, swim on this planet. And
that's who we are. We're omnivores.
>> It seems like you got the passion to
talk about this all day, every day.
Where's this passion come from? Where's
the energy come from? And like what do
you do for exercise?
>> Well, I go to the gym every day. Uh I I
got a beautiful gym right out in front
of and behind my lab, you know, packed
with uh 19 uh 18 uh to 22 year old
people.
The the environment is quite four
>> four stories of swimming pools,
weightlifting, all kinds of stuff. Um so
we do that and because I'm fortunate to
have that opportunity, uh you know, I
can every lunchtime I go to the gym uh
during the week and on the weekend I
ride my bike around the lake. So, uh,
uh, when the weather is nice, not not
feet of snow, then I work the snowb
blower, you know, and even with a torn
rotator cuff, I'm still able to do a lot
of this stuff. So, so I'm pushing 80,
you know, and and and what what we know
is what we know is that what I'm talking
about will eventually become the
standard of care, uh, leading to so much
less uh, uh, u tragic uh, pain and
suffering that these people have. And
what I get enjoyment out of is when I
see people that are telling me they got
stage four lung, colon, breast cancer,
and then we they do metabolic therapy
the correct way under the right kind of
supervision and they feel that they've
never have been healthier in their life.
Uh and that hypertension, diabetes, all
this other stuff went away with the
cancer. And I'm saying, yeah, it works.
And and and and and it's also it's
always the the choice of the patient.
It's the choice of the individual. Do
they want chemo and radiation or do they
want metabolic therapy? We're not
telling them do metabolic therapy. It's
their choice, but they have the
opportunity to do that. And when we see
success, uh, like we're seeing it, it's
unbelievable. And but I I only throw it
out there for those people that actually
want to use it. Um, and the educational
community should know about it and they
seem to be more resistant to that. So
that's what motivates me. uh uh seeing
the results of your hard science uh the
work of out of Worerberg the work that
we've done the work that others have
done and showing that this whole success
is based on hard biology and
biochemistry uh to know what's going to
happen and and you see it in real life
and you say oh my god look at how
powerful it is um and then people will
come to know it just takes time
>> thank you so much for your time today we
we really appreciate it and thanks for
the work that you're doing
>> yeah well thank you very much you stay
healthy
Heck